
 Package gosym

    import "debug/gosym"

    Overview
    Index

Overview ▾

Package gosym implements access to the Go symbol and line number tables embedded in Go binaries generated by the gc compilers.
Index ▾

    type DecodingError
        func (e *DecodingError) Error() string
    type Func
    type LineTable
        func NewLineTable(data []byte, text uint64) *LineTable
        func (t *LineTable) LineToPC(line int, maxpc uint64) uint64
        func (t *LineTable) PCToLine(pc uint64) int
    type Obj
    type Sym
        func (s *Sym) BaseName() string
        func (s *Sym) PackageName() string
        func (s *Sym) ReceiverName() string
        func (s *Sym) Static() bool
    type Table
        func NewTable(symtab []byte, pcln *LineTable) (*Table, error)
        func (t *Table) LineToPC(file string, line int) (pc uint64, fn *Func, err error)
        func (t *Table) LookupFunc(name string) *Func
        func (t *Table) LookupSym(name string) *Sym
        func (t *Table) PCToFunc(pc uint64) *Func
        func (t *Table) PCToLine(pc uint64) (file string, line int, fn *Func)
        func (t *Table) SymByAddr(addr uint64) *Sym
    type UnknownFileError
        func (e UnknownFileError) Error() string
    type UnknownLineError
        func (e *UnknownLineError) Error() string

Package files

pclntab.go symtab.go
type DecodingError

DecodingError represents an error during the decoding of the symbol table.

type DecodingError struct {
        // contains filtered or unexported fields
}

func (*DecodingError) Error

func (e *DecodingError) Error() string

type Func

A Func collects information about a single function.

type Func struct {
        Entry uint64
        *Sym
        End       uint64
        Params    []*Sym
        Locals    []*Sym
        FrameSize int
        LineTable *LineTable
        Obj       *Obj
}

type LineTable

A LineTable is a data structure mapping program counters to line numbers.

In Go 1.1 and earlier, each function (represented by a Func) had its own LineTable, and the line number corresponded to a numbering of all source lines in the program, across all files. That absolute line number would then have to be converted separately to a file name and line number within the file.

In Go 1.2, the format of the data changed so that there is a single LineTable for the entire program, shared by all Funcs, and there are no absolute line numbers, just line numbers within specific files.

For the most part, LineTable's methods should be treated as an internal detail of the package; callers should use the methods on Table instead.

type LineTable struct {
        Data []byte
        PC   uint64
        Line int
        // contains filtered or unexported fields
}

func NewLineTable

func NewLineTable(data []byte, text uint64) *LineTable

NewLineTable returns a new PC/line table corresponding to the encoded data. Text must be the start address of the corresponding text segment.
func (*LineTable) LineToPC

func (t *LineTable) LineToPC(line int, maxpc uint64) uint64

LineToPC returns the program counter for the given line number, considering only program counters before maxpc. Callers should use Table's LineToPC method instead.
func (*LineTable) PCToLine

func (t *LineTable) PCToLine(pc uint64) int

PCToLine returns the line number for the given program counter. Callers should use Table's PCToLine method instead.
type Obj

An Obj represents a collection of functions in a symbol table.

The exact method of division of a binary into separate Objs is an internal detail of the symbol table format.

In early versions of Go each source file became a different Obj.

In Go 1 and Go 1.1, each package produced one Obj for all Go sources and one Obj per C source file.

In Go 1.2, there is a single Obj for the entire program.

type Obj struct {
        // Funcs is a list of functions in the Obj.
        Funcs []Func

        // In Go 1.1 and earlier, Paths is a list of symbols corresponding
        // to the source file names that produced the Obj.
        // In Go 1.2, Paths is nil.
        // Use the keys of Table.Files to obtain a list of source files.
        Paths []Sym // meta
}

type Sym

A Sym represents a single symbol table entry.

type Sym struct {
        Value  uint64
        Type   byte
        Name   string
        GoType uint64
        // If this symbol is a function symbol, the corresponding Func
        Func *Func
}

func (*Sym) BaseName

func (s *Sym) BaseName() string

BaseName returns the symbol name without the package or receiver name.
func (*Sym) PackageName

func (s *Sym) PackageName() string

PackageName returns the package part of the symbol name, or the empty string if there is none.
func (*Sym) ReceiverName

func (s *Sym) ReceiverName() string

ReceiverName returns the receiver type name of this symbol, or the empty string if there is none.
func (*Sym) Static

func (s *Sym) Static() bool

Static reports whether this symbol is static (not visible outside its file).
type Table

Table represents a Go symbol table. It stores all of the symbols decoded from the program and provides methods to translate between symbols, names, and addresses.

type Table struct {
        Syms  []Sym
        Funcs []Func
        Files map[string]*Obj // nil for Go 1.2 and later binaries
        Objs  []Obj           // nil for Go 1.2 and later binaries
        // contains filtered or unexported fields
}

func NewTable

func NewTable(symtab []byte, pcln *LineTable) (*Table, error)

NewTable decodes the Go symbol table in data, returning an in-memory representation.
func (*Table) LineToPC

func (t *Table) LineToPC(file string, line int) (pc uint64, fn *Func, err error)

LineToPC looks up the first program counter on the given line in the named file. It returns UnknownPathError or UnknownLineError if there is an error looking up this line.
func (*Table) LookupFunc

func (t *Table) LookupFunc(name string) *Func

LookupFunc returns the text, data, or bss symbol with the given name, or nil if no such symbol is found.
func (*Table) LookupSym

func (t *Table) LookupSym(name string) *Sym

LookupSym returns the text, data, or bss symbol with the given name, or nil if no such symbol is found.
func (*Table) PCToFunc

func (t *Table) PCToFunc(pc uint64) *Func

PCToFunc returns the function containing the program counter pc, or nil if there is no such function.
func (*Table) PCToLine

func (t *Table) PCToLine(pc uint64) (file string, line int, fn *Func)

PCToLine looks up line number information for a program counter. If there is no information, it returns fn == nil.
func (*Table) SymByAddr

func (t *Table) SymByAddr(addr uint64) *Sym

SymByAddr returns the text, data, or bss symbol starting at the given address.
type UnknownFileError

UnknownFileError represents a failure to find the specific file in the symbol table.

type UnknownFileError string

func (UnknownFileError) Error

func (e UnknownFileError) Error() string

type UnknownLineError

UnknownLineError represents a failure to map a line to a program counter, either because the line is beyond the bounds of the file or because there is no code on the given line.

type UnknownLineError struct {
        File string
        Line int
}

func (*UnknownLineError) Error

func (e *UnknownLineError) Error() string
